README.md, before:

# AWS Whitepaper read tracker

Simple tracker that fetches a list of AWS whitepapers, and allows you to track when you read them.

## Usage

The project is split up in a `backend` and `frontend` folder. The backend is a go app that will both serve the frontend, and fetch the aws whitepapers, store them in a sqlite db.

Running the app assumes you've built the frontend, and copied the contents of `frontend/public` to `backend/frontend`

### Server usage

```bash
Usage of whitepaper-tracker
  -config="": path to config file
  -db_location="papers.db": The location of the sqlite db
  -port=3000: Port to listen on
  -skipload=false: Whether to skip the initial whitepaper load, useful for testing
  -test_fetch=false: Whether to test if item fetch still works instead of starting the server
```

Variables can also be passed in via environment variables, and a config file:

Priority is: command line args > env vars > config file > defaults

#### Env vars

```shell
DB_LOCATION
PORT
SKIPLOAD
TEST_FETCH
```

#### Config file

```
skipload=false
db_location=papers.db
test_fetch=true
port=3333
```

Then point to the config folder with `whitepaper_tracker -config papers.conf`

### Building the backend

```bash
cd backend && go build .
```

### Building the frontend

```bash
cd frontend && npm i && npm run build
```

For development, you can use `npm run dev` to get a livereloading variant for the frontend.

During development and building, you can point to the backend using the `API_BASE_PATH` env var.

For example:

```bash
export API_BASE_PATH=http://localhost:3000/api
```
If you have the backend running using the default configuration, this should point you to that backend.

## Docker image

A Docker image is available that will build the back and frontend, and will run the app when started.

### Building

From the root of the repository:

```bash
sudo docker build . -t whitepaper-tracker:latest
```

### Running the app

```bash
sudo docker run -it --rm -p 3000:3000 -v $PWD:/data -e DB_LOCATION="/data/papers.db" whitepaper-tracker:latest
```

Commit message:

Add scrape test job and badge, also add quickstart based on ghcr docker image

README.md, after:

# AWS Whitepaper read tracker
![example workflow](https://github.com/bonemind/whitepaper-tracker/actions/workflows/test-scrape.yml/badge.svg)

Simple tracker that fetches a list of AWS whitepapers, and allows you to track when you read them. Also keeps track of whether a paper has been updated since the last time you read it.

The "Test whitepaper fetching" job is scheduled to run weekly and indicates that this project works as long as it passes.

## Docker quickstart

```shell
sudo docker run -it --rm -p 3000:3000 -v $PWD:/data -e DB_LOCATION="/data/papers.db" ghcr.io/bonemind/whitepaper-tracker
```

Once this is running, navigate to `http://localhost:3000` to start using the app

## Usage

The project is split up in a `backend` and `frontend` folder. The backend is a go app that will both serve the frontend, and fetch the aws whitepapers, store them in a sqlite db.

Running the app assumes you've built the frontend, and copied the contents of `frontend/public` to `backend/frontend`

### Server usage

```bash
Usage of whitepaper-tracker
  -config="": path to config file
  -db_location="papers.db": The location of the sqlite db
  -port=3000: Port to listen on
  -skipload=false: Whether to skip the initial whitepaper load, useful for testing
  -test_fetch=false: Whether to test if item fetch still works instead of starting the server
```

Variables can also be passed in via environment variables, and a config file:

Priority is: command line args > env vars > config file > defaults

#### Env vars

```shell
DB_LOCATION
PORT
SKIPLOAD
TEST_FETCH
```

#### Config file

```
skipload=false
db_location=papers.db
test_fetch=true
port=3333
```

Then point to the config folder with `whitepaper_tracker -config papers.conf`

### Building the backend

```bash
cd backend && go build .
```

### Building the frontend

```bash
cd frontend && npm i && npm run build
```

For development, you can use `npm run dev` to get a livereloading variant for the frontend.

During development and building, you can point to the backend using the `API_BASE_PATH` env var.

For example:

```bash
export API_BASE_PATH=http://localhost:3000/api
```
If you have the backend running using the default configuration, this should point you to that backend.

## Docker image

A Docker image is available that will build the back and frontend, and will run the app when started.

### Building

From the root of the repository:

```bash
sudo docker build . -t whitepaper-tracker:latest
```

### Running the app

```bash
sudo docker run -it --rm -p 3000:3000 -v $PWD:/data -e DB_LOCATION="/data/papers.db" whitepaper-tracker:latest
```
